---
date: 2024-09-06T18:20
tags:
  - "#cybersecurity"
  - Nmap
cssclasses:
  - pen-green
  - page-grid
---
**Enumeration** is the most critical part of all. The art, the difficulty and the goal are not to gain access to our target computer. 

Instead, is identifying all of the ways we could attack a target. It’s not hard to get access to the target once we know how. 

Most of the ways we can get access we can narrow to the following two points:

- Functions and/or resources that allow us to interact with the target and/or provide additional information

- Information that provides us with even more important information to access our target

Most information we get comes from misconfiguration or neglect of security for the respective services. Misconfigurations are either the result of ignorance or a wrong security mindset.

>For example, if administrator only relies on the firewall Group Policy Objects (GPOs) and continuous updates, it is often not enough to secure the network

#### Enumeration is the key
***
Most people understand that they haven’t tried all the tools to get the information they need. Most of the time, however it’s not the tools we haven’t trued, but rather the fact that we don’t know how to interact with the service and what’s relevant.

Invest a couple of hours learning more about the service, how it works, and what it is meant for. This will save you a few hours or even days from reaching your goal and getting access to the system.

#### Manual enumeration is a critical component
***
Many scanning tools simplify and accelerate the process. However, these cannot always bypass the security measures of the services

>Most scanning tools have a timeout set until they receive a response from the service. If this tool does not respond within a specific time, the service/port will be marked as closed, filtered or unknown. In the last two cases we will still be able to work with it. However, if a port is market as closed and [[202409062122 Intro to Nmap|Nmap]] doesn’t show it to us, we will be in a bad situation. This service/port may provide us with the opportunity to find a way to access the system. Therefore, this result can take much unnecessary time until we find it.
