---
date: 2024-09-19T19:36
tags:
  - Networking
  - cybersecurity
cssclasses:
  - pen-blue
  - page-grid
---
#### WAN
***
The **WAN** (Wide Area Network) is commonly referred to as `The Internet`. When dealing with networking equipment we’ll often have a WAN Address and LAN Address.

The WAN is the address that is generally accessed by the Internet. That being said, it is not inclusive to the internet. A WAN is just a large number of LANs joined together. Many large companies or government agencies will have an “Internal WAN” (also called Intranet, Airgap Network, etc.).

Generally speaking, the primary way we identify if the network is a WAN is to use a WAN Specific routing protocol such as [[202409191958 BGP|BGP]] and if the IP Schema in use is not within [[202409192006 RFC 1918|RFC 1918]] (10.0.0.0/8, 172.16.0.0/12, 192.168.0.0/16).

**BGP is specific to WANs** because it manages how traffic is routed between different networks that are geographically dispersed, such as across cities, countries or continents.

#### LAN/WLAN
***
LANs (Local Area Network) and WLANs (Wireless Local Area Network) will typically assign IP addresses designed for local use ([[202409192006 RFC 1918|RFC 1918]]).

In some cases, like some colleges or hotels, you may be assigned a routable (Internet) IP Address from joining their LAN, but that is much less common.

#### VPN
***
There are three main types of `Virtual Private Networks` (VPN), but all three have the same goal of making the user feel as if they were plugged into a different network

##### Site-to-Site VPN
***
Both the client and server are `Network Devices` (either `Routers` or `Firewalls`) and share the entire network ranges.

This is most commonly used to join company networks together over the Internet, allowing them to communicate as if they were in the same [[202409192008 Internal Network|Local Network]].

##### Remote Access VPN
***
This involves the client’s computer creating a virtual interface that behaves as if it is on a client’s network. (`CISCO AnyConnect` is an example of such VPN).

Hack The Box utilizes `OpenVPN` which makes a TUN Adapter letting us access the labs.

When analyzing these VPNs, an important piece to consider is the routing table that is create d when joining the VPN. If the VPN only creates routes for specific networks (ex: 10.10.10.0/24). this is called [[Split-Tunnel VPN]], meaning the Internet connection **is not going out from the VPN**. 

This is grate for Hack The Box because it provides access to the Lab without the privacy concern of monitoring your internet connection. 

However, for a company, [[Split-Tunnel VPN|split-tunnel VPNs]] are typically not ideal because if the machine is infected with malware, network-based detection methods will most likely not work as that traffic goes out the Internet.

##### SSL VPN
***
This is essentially a VPN that is done within your web browser and is becoming increasingly common as web browsers are becoming capable of doing anything. 

Typically these will stream applications or entire desktop session to your web browser. A grate example of this would be the Hack The Box `Pwnbox`

#### LINKS TO THIS PAGE
***
- [[202409191936 Network Types]]