---
date: 2024-09-09T19:45
tags:
  - Networking
cssclasses:
  - pen-blue
  - page-grid
---
#### What is a subnet?
***
A subnetwork (subnet) is a network inside a network. Through subnetting, network traffic can travel a shorter distance without passing through unnecessary routers to reach its destination

#### Why is subnetting necessary? 
***
The way [IP addresses](obsidian://open?vault=Obs&file=03%20-%20Resources%2FCybersecurity%2FNetworking%2FTerminology%2F202409091926%20IP%20Address) are constructed makes it relatively easy for Internet routers to find the right network to route the data into. 

But in a Class A network, there could be millions of connected devices, and it could take some time for the data to find the right device.  This is where subnetting comes in handy: subnetting narrows down the IP addresses to usage within a range of devices

#### What is subnet mask?
***
Suppose an IP packet is addressed to the IP address 192.0.2.15. This IP address is a [Class C network](obsidian://open?vault=Obs&file=03%20-%20Resources%2FCybersecurity%2FNetworking%2FTerminology%2F202409092030%20Network%20classes) so network is identified by 192.0.2 

(192.0.2.0/24 represents a network partition and 192.0.2.15 is a specific IP address of a device in this subnet)

Network routers forward the packet to a host on the network indicated by 192.0.2

Once the packet arrives at that network, a router within the network consults its routing table. It does some binary mathematics using its subnet mask of 225.225.225.0, sees the device address 15 and calculates which subnet the packet should go to. It forwards the packet to the router or switch  responsible for delivering packets within that subnet and packet arrives at device IP addres.

> subnet mask determines how many hosts a subnet could have

