---
date: 2024-09-09T19:26
tags:
  - Networking
cssclasses:
  - page-grid
  - pen-blue
---
#### What is an IP Address 
***
Every device that connects to the Internet is assigned a unique IP address, enabling data sent over the Internet to reach the right device out of billions of devices connected to the Internet

While computers read IP addresses as binary code, IP addresses are usually written as a series of alphanumeric characters

#### What do the different parts of an IP address mean?
***
This section focuses on IPv4 addresses which are represented in the form of four decimal numbers separated by period. (IPv6 addresses are longer and use letters as well as numbers)

Every IP address has two parts. First part indicated which network the address belongs to. Second part represent the device within a network. **However, the length of the “first part” changes depending on the network’s class.** 

Networks are categorized into different classes, labeled A through E. <u>Class A</u> network can connect millions of devices while <u>Class B and Class C</u> are progressively smaller. <u>Class D and E</u> networks are not commonly used.

##### Network Classes and IP address construction
***
- **Class A network:** Everything before the first period indicates the network. (203.0.113.122 - <u>203</u> is a network, <u>0.113.122</u> a device) 

- **Class B network:** Everything before the second period indicates the network (203.0.113.122 - <u>203.0</u> is a network, <u>113.122</u> is a device) 

- **Class C network:** Everything before the third period indicates the network (203.0.113.122 - <u>203.0.133</u> is a network <u>122</u> is a device)

#### LINKS TO THIS PAGE
***
[[202409091945 Subnet]]